My project was implemented with a combination of HTML, CSS, Python, and Javascript, along with many other Python libraries and a Heroku database. Though I started off by working in the CS50 IDE, I quickly had to change paths once I realized that I couldn't run a Python library that was crucial to my design in that environment. After spending a few hours attempting to download the  Python requests library multiple times, I decided my time would be better used switching to a local database and working on my project from there.

With the help of a few CS50 TAs, I switched my code to Heroku and used SQLalchemy to run my database. In the process of making this change, I learned how to run a virtual environment through my computer's terminal and how to communicate with a database that wasn't already made by the CS50 staff.

Once I got my program up and running locally, I began focusing on making my computer communicate with the Philips Hue Lightbulb, which can be controlled by HTTP requests. By using the aforementioned requests library, I sent HTTP requests to my lightbulb, but quickly ran into an issue surrounding the way the lightbulb interacted with requests that included variables. For some reason I still don't completely understand, the Philips Hue Lightbulb wouldn't respond to HTTP requests that included JSON with variables inside of it. To overcome this problem, I defined all the colors I could possibly need for my program in a library, so that I could just call a color's values when I needed them instead of calculating them each time and passing them into the JSON as variables. Though this approach is more inefficient than the one I originally tried, I knew I couldn't fix bugs in the hardware and would have to compensate for them on the software side.

After figuring out how to change the lightbulb's color programmatically, I focused on building the web interface that communicates with the lightbulb. To do so, I relied heavily on Javascript's redirect functionality, since all of my Python functions are associated with app routes. I specifically used Javascript's redirect function in my functions that run in the background of the home page and calculate when to change the color of the lightbulb and sound the alarm. Additionally, I used many buttons and the onclick Javascript event to switch back between Javascript and Python through the app addresses.

Other than teaching myself some new Javascript and HTML, the main issue I ran into with this project was getting the lightbulb to connect to it's bridge over Yale's wifi system. I wasn't able to get this working until the middle of the week before the final project was due, limiting the amount of time I had to actually make the website interact with the lightbulb in the way I'd been planning.

Though I dealt with many more setbacks than anticipated, both on the hardware and the software side, I was able to get a final product that achieved my initial goals. However, due to the setbacks I experienced, I spent less time thinking about the software interaction between Python and Javascript than I had wanted to. Looking back at my program, I can see places where I could make things more efficient, but didn't have the time to research doing so. Overall, I'm happy with all I accomplished and learned a lot about how hardware can interact with complicated software programs. 
